Israel has promised to provide proof to
back up its claim Hamas was using gaza's
largest hospital as a Command Center in
southern Gaza Israeli forces have
started dropping leaflets in the Khan
Yunis area warning people to evacuate
their homes and head to shelters for
their own safety similar leaflets were
also dropped over Northern Gaza weeks
before the ground offensive suggesting
imminent military operations may be
planned for the south of the country
well let's get the very latest now from
my colleague Mark loen who is in
southern Israel for us
Mark Maran thank you very much indeed
well we were going to actually uh be
live with you in that headline sequence
but we had to dash because there was a
rocket that was just fired uh just above
our heads and intercepted by Israel's
Iron Dome anti-missile system and there
was a siren that went out so we just had
to take cover there I'm not sure if you
can see but in the distance the very
large plume of smoke there where an air
strike has recently hit um a sign of
just how constant the threats are here
as this conflict reaches almost 6 weeks
well meanwhile uh the Israeli Defense
Forces continue their operation inside
alifa Hospital uh gaza's largest
hospital and Israel has promised to
provide proof of what they say is
hamas's Command Center there Hamas has
consistently denied the allegations of
the Israeli military uh President Biden
meanwhile has said that the uh us has
urged Israel to act in his words with
Incredible care as Israel's military
operation at alifa
continues one thing has been established
is that Hamas does have a headquarters
weapons material below this hospital and
I suspect
others well our correspondent Lucy
Williamson was taken inside alifa
hospital by the Israeli Defense Forces a
little earlier she joined us from
Jerusalem Israel is really coming under
pressure to prove why it carried out the
operation it's carrying out in Gaza and
driving into Gaza last night it was
clear just the scale of its military
operation there parts of the city looked
as if it had been hit by an earthquake
buildings completely decimated roads
churned up rows of Tanks moving through
the streets um so I think the scale of
the operation is clear but also Israel's
desire to try and show the world why
it's doing what it's doing it's still
very tense uh they took us right into
the heart of Gaza City into alifa
hospital that's been the scene at least
the streets around it have been the
scene of some of the fiercest fighting
over the past few days uh we had to go
in in darkness through a hole in one of
the perimeter walls and we were taken um
to one specific Department the MRI
department in the hospital we weren't
allowed to talk to other people not to
doctors not to patients we were shown uh
the the items that the IDF said they had
found there hidden amongst the medical
equipment but as you say um the real uh
the real proof that uh Israel is under
such Global scrutiny for is to provide
evidence of this network of tunnels
beneath the hospital that's something
they haven't found yet but they did say
that it's very early days there's a lot
of the hospital still to search and both
they and the US intelligence Community
believe those tunnels are there
we're in an Israeli military vehicle
inside the Gaza Strip now they're taking
us towards Gaza City this area we're
passing through an area where the ground
operation first began weeks ago now and
since then the Israeli Army has fought
its way methodically towards Gaza City
towards the gates of the shifa hospital
and that's where they taking us
now we're still being told to keep our
lights off
are we going this
way the Israeli Army has been really
searching through this Hospital you can
see they've had to force the door of the
MRI room here to get
inside they've been looking for evidence
of this being a Hamas base a place where
Hamas planned attacks and they say that
among the things they've uncovered are
more than a dozen kalashnikovs grenades
personal protective equipment some of it
with the the military Brigade insignia
on it you can see some of them here
hidden under these bags of medical
supplies we're also told that there have
been laptops found with some information
about the hostages they also found some
recent files that suggest this may have
been a Hamas operating base as recently
as a few days
ago well there's been a lot of pressure
on Israel for the humanitarian cost of
its operation in Gaza not least inside
the shifa hospital where doctors say
they're struggling to keep alive dozens
of vulnerable newborn babies without
enough electricity food or water but now
that Israel does have control of the
hospital and is carrying out the
searches it's also Under Pressure to
prove to give some evidence about why
it's actually
there Lucy Williamson with a rare
Glimpse inside alifa Hospital in Gaza
there well on this side of the border
the Israeli police say that they have
killed three suspects involved in an
attack on a checkpoint in
Jerusalem at least four people were shot
including one who was critically injured
two others suffered light injuries the
police said all the injured were members
of the security services